In this video, we'll do a
quick overview of looping in
general and specifically in c++.
Looping is also called
iteration or repetition.
It's the third basic building
block of programming.
After this section of the course,
you'll have all you need to begin to
solve very complex problems, using
sequence, selection and iteration.
In this course, we're covering c++.
However, all programming
languages must support sequence,
selection and iteration.
Once you understand these concepts
completely, then it's just a matter
of picking up the syntax of another
programming language and you'll
be able to implement solutions to
problems in those languages as well.
Loops allow the execution
of a statement or block
of statements repeatedly.
And they're made up of two sections.
First, the loop condition
which determines when we
iterate and when we don't.
Second is the loop body.
That's the statement or block of
statements that will be repeated.
That's it.
Conceptually, it's very simple.
Let's look at a few
use cases for looping.
Here are some typical
We want to execute a loop or repeat
statements a specific number of times.
For example, we want to do something
10 times or we ask the user how many
times they wish to do something.
Another use case is iterating one
time for each element in a collection.
So suppose we have items in an
array or a vector, and we want
to process each of those items.
Other times we want to loop until
a specific condition becomes true.
So we loop until we see a
specific value then we stop.
Of course, we can also loop forever.
This isn't as common as the other
use cases, but operating systems
are an example of programs that loop
forever executing system processes.
There are many other use
cases and variations of
these existing use cases.
Let's look at the c++
looping constructs now.
C++ has three main looping
structures: the for loop, the
while loop and the do while loop.
The for loop has a ranged base
variant, which is really great.
First, let's talk about the for loop.
The for loop is typically
used when you want to iterate
a specific number of times.
For example you want to loop
10 times or end times, where n
is determined by the program.
The range-based for loop makes
it really easy to iterate through
a range of items or through
the elements of a collection.
With arrays vectors and
other collections, this
is a great loop to use.
The while loop iterates while a
specific condition remains true.
When the condition becomes
false, we terminate the loop.
In the case of the while loop,
the condition is checked at the
beginning of every iteration.
The do while loop is similar to the
while loop, except that the condition
is checked after each iteration.
With only these basic
loops, we can implement any
iteration pattern we want.
All programming languages
have loop constructs.
The c++ loops are clear and concise.
Let's go through the
c++ loops one at a time.
Let's start with the for
loop in the next video.